Cats sleep 70% of their lives.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
They can make over 100 vocal sounds.
A cat’s nose is as unique as a human fingerprint.
Cats have five toes on their front paws, but only four on the back.
A house cat can run to the speed of about 30 mph over short distances.
Cats can jump up to six times their length.
A cat’s whiskers are generally about the same width as its body.
Cats have a specialized collarbone that allows them to always land on their feet.
The world’s oldest cat lived to be 38 years old.
A cat’s purr can help heal bones and reduce pain.
Cats can rotate their ears 180 degrees.
A group of kittens is called a kindle.
Cats have 230 bones, while humans only have 206.
The world’s largest cat measured 48.5 inches long.
Cats can make over 100 different sounds.
A cat’s brain is 90% similar to a human’s brain.
Cats sweat through their paws.
The first cat in space was French and named Felicette.
Cats can’t taste sweetness.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart.
Cats have three eyelids.
The oldest known pet cat existed 9,500 years ago.
A cat’s tongue is covered in tiny, backward-facing spines.
Cats can dream, just like people.
A cat’s meow is a form of communication with humans.
Cats can see in near total darkness.
The richest cat in the world had £7 million left to him.
Cats have a strong territorial instinct.
A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s.
Cats can move their ears independently.
A cat’s tail is a communication tool.
Cats can’t see directly under their nose.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible.
Cats have retractable claws.
A cat’s sense of smell is 14 times better than a human’s.
Cats can get sunburned.
A cat’s fur color can change with temperature.
Cats have a Jacobson’s organ for detecting pheromones.
A cat’s kneading is a sign of contentment.
Cats can be right- or left-pawed.
A cat’s eyes are proportionally huge.
Cats can get acne on their chin.
A cat’s yawn is a sign of relaxation.
Cats can be lactose intolerant.
A cat’s tail contains almost 10% of its bones.
Cats can have heterochromia (two different colored eyes).
A cat’s whiskers are sensitive to air movement.
Cats can get stuck in trees because their claws face one way.
A cat’s purring can lower stress in humans.
Cats can squeeze through any space their head fits through.
A cat’s nose has as many scent receptors as a dog’s.
Cats can sleep in a loaf position to conserve heat.
A cat’s favorite sleeping spot is often the highest point in a room.
Cats can be trained to use the toilet.
A cat’s fur can be curly.
Cats can have extra toes (polydactyl).
A cat’s eyes can reflect light at night.
Cats can get hairballs from grooming.
A cat’s meow can mimic a baby’s cry.
Cats can be allergic to humans.
A cat’s tail can express emotion.
Cats can get the zoomies after using the litter box.
A cat’s purr can be a sign of pain.
Cats can have freckles on their nose and lips.
A cat’s ears can detect ultrasonic sounds.
Cats can get stuck in small spaces.
A cat’s fur can change color with age.
Cats can have a dominant paw.
A cat’s whiskers can detect changes in air pressure.
Cats can have a favorite toy.
A cat’s purr can help them heal.
Cats can get bored easily.
A cat’s eyes can change color as they age.
Cats can have a unique meow for each person.
A cat’s fur can be hypoallergenic.
Cats can get jealous of other pets.
A cat’s tail can be a balance tool.
Cats can have a strong hunting instinct.
A cat’s purr can be soothing to humans.
Cats can get attached to routines.
A cat’s fur can be water-resistant.
Cats can have a unique personality.
A cat’s eyes can see ultraviolet light.
Cats can get along with dogs.
A cat’s whiskers can help them navigate in the dark.
Cats can have a favorite person.
A cat’s purr can be a sign of happiness.
Cats can get scared by loud noises.
A cat’s fur can be soft and silky.
Cats can have a playful nature.
A cat’s eyes can be different shapes.
Cats can get along with children.
A cat’s whiskers can help them judge distance.
Cats can have a gentle purr.
A cat’s fur can be long or short.
Cats can have a loving nature.
A cat’s eyes can be mesmerizing.
Cats can get along with other cats.
A cat’s whiskers can help them sense danger.
Cats can have a curious nature. 